Add documentation for log forwarding (#1851)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/enterprise/admin/logging.html.md

---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Log Forwarding - Infrastructure Administration - Terraform Enterprise"
---

# Terraform Enterprise Log Forwarding

> Terraform Enterprise supports forwarding its logs to one or more external

Reviewer: Should we include a version qualifier so users know it isn't available prior to v202109-1?

Reviewer 2: We don't typically call that out. The assumption has been what's on the website is accurate for the current release.

> destinations; aptly referred to as log forwarding. This page details how to

Author: I'm a stickler for grammar things, so I'm happy to have this. Done!

configure log forwarding in Terraform Enterprise.

## Requirements

Log forwarding requires:

- Terraform Enterprise running on an instance with the `systemd-journald`
service started and enabled. Execute `systemctl status systemd-journald` to
check if the `systemd-journald` service is started and enabled.
- A version of Docker that supports the `journald` logging driver. Execute
`docker info --format '{{.Plugins.Log}}'` to check if the `journald` plugin is
listed.

> - Network connectivity between Terraform Enterprise and the desired external

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the default port here?

Author: No need for this. All the connections are egress from Terraform Enterprise to the desired destination. The ports for the destinations can vary.

destination(s) where logs should be forwarded to.

## Configuration

In order to use log forwarding, it must be enabled and configured. Once that is
done, the Terraform Enterprise application will need to be restarted for the log
forwarding configuration to take effect.

### Enable Log Forwarding

To enable log forwarding, the `log_forwarding_enabled` Terraform Enterprise
application setting must be set to the value `1`.

> Enable log forwarding for a standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable log forwarding for a Standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:
```

```
replicatedctl app-config set log_forwarding_enabled --value 1
```

> Enable log forwarding for an active/active installation of Terraform Enterprise:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable log forwarding for an Active/Active installation of Terraform Enterprise:
```

Reviewer: I think we try to capitalize the names of the operational modes 🤔

```

When enabled, the Terraform Enterprise application settings should show the
following for the `log_forwarding_enabled` setting:

```
    ...
    "log_forwarding_enabled": {
        "value": "1"
    },
    ...
```

Log forwarding is disabled by default.

### Configure External Destinations

Once log forwarding is enabled, it must be configured to forward logs to one or
more external destinations. To configure log forwarding, the
`log_forwarding_config` Terraform Enterprise application setting must contain
valid [Fluent Bit `[OUTPUT]` configuration](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/administration/configuring-fluent-bit)
specifying which external destination(s) to forward logs to. Since the Terraform
Enterprise application settings are stored as JSON strings, it is recommended to
create a `fluent-bit.conf` file with the valid Fluent Bit `[OUTPUT]`
configuration and then configure the `log_forwarding_config` Terraform
Enterprise application setting with the contents of that `fluent-bit.conf` file.
That way, the configuration is stored in the Terraform Enterprise application
settings exactly how it appears in the `fluent-bit.conf` file.

> Configure log forwarding for a standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure log forwarding for a Standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:
```

```
replicatedctl app-config set log_forwarding_config --value "$(cat fluent-bit.conf)"
```

> Configure log forwarding for an active/active installation of Terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure log forwarding for an Active/Active installation of Terraform
```

[OUTPUT]
    Name null
    Match *
```

To forward logs to multiple external destinations, use multiple `[OUTPUT]`
directives.

```
# Forward all logs to Datadog.
[OUTPUT]
    Name datadog
    Match *
    ...

# Forward all logs to Fluent Bit or Fluentd.
[OUTPUT]
    Name forward
    Match *
    ...
```

~> **NOTE:** Do not use an `[OUTPUT]` directive with the
[`stdout` Fluent Bit output plugin](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/standard-output).
Doing so will result in a loop that will continuously emit logs!

## Supported External Destinations

These are the supported external destinations one can forward logs to. Each
supported external destination contains example configuration for convenience.

### Amazon CloudWatch

This example configuration forwards all logs to Amazon CloudWatch. Refer to the
[`cloudwatch_logs` Fluent Bit output plugin documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/cloudwatch)
for more information.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name               cloudwatch_logs
    Match              *
    region             us-east-1
    log_group_name     example-log-group
    log_stream_name    example-log-stream
    auto_create_group  On
```

> ~> **NOTE:** Sending to Amazon CloudWatch is only supported when Terraform

Reviewer 2: We've got a lot of ~Notes~ going on, perhaps we move this (and the gcp one) just to the top of the appropriate section instead?

Author: I moved this information to the top of its respective section and removed the note formatting for it. Let me know if that reads better.

when Terraform Enterprise is located within GCP due to how Fluent Bit reads GCP
credentials.

~> **NOTE:** In Terraform Enterprise installations using GCP external services,
Fluent Bit will have access to the `GOOGLE_SERVICE_CREDENTIALS` environment
variable that points to a file containing the same GCP Service Account JSON
credentials that are used for object storage.

### Splunk Enterprise HTTP Event Collector (HEC)

This example configuration forwards all logs to Splunk Enterprise via the HTTP
Event Collector (HEC) interface. Refer to the
[`splunk` Fluent Bit output plugin documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/splunk)
for more information.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name          splunk
    Match         *
    Host          example-splunk-hec-endpoint
    Port          8088
    Splunk_Token  example-splunk-token
```

## Audit Logs

Terraform Enterprise emits its audit logs along with its application logs.
Currently, log forwarding can forward either all Terraform Enterprise logs or no
logs at all. To distinguish audit logs from application logs, audit log entries
contain the string `[Audit Log]`. For example:

```

> 2021-08-31 04:58:30 [INFO] [7a233ad1-c50c-4737-a925-3be901e55fcb] [Audit Log] {"resource":"run","action":"create","resource_id":"run-nL77p69bsesoF3RK","organization":"example-org","organization_id":"org-pveSPvxocni226Fn","actor":"example-user","timestamp":"2021-08-31T04:58:30Z","actor_ip":"19.115.231.192"}

Author: Done!

```

For an Active/Active installation of Terraform Enterprise:

```
tfe-admin app-config -k log_forwarding_config -v "$(cat fluent-bit.conf)"
```

Once configured, the Terraform Enterprise application settings show the
`log_forwarding_config` setting in escaped JSON string format:

```
    ...
    "log_forwarding_config": {
        "value": "# Match all logs and do not forward them anywhere.\n[OUTPUT]\n    Name null\n    Match *\n"
    },
    ...
```

The default configuration does not forward any logs.

```
# Match all logs and do not forward them anywhere.
[OUTPUT]
    Name null
    Match *
```

To forward logs to multiple external destinations, use multiple `[OUTPUT]`
directives.

```
# Forward all logs to Datadog.
[OUTPUT]
    Name datadog
    Match *
    ...

# Forward all logs to Fluent Bit or Fluentd.
[OUTPUT]
    Name forward
    Match *
    ...
```

-> **Note:** Do not use an `[OUTPUT]` directive with the
[`stdout` Fluent Bit output plugin](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/standard-output).
Doing this creates a loop that continuously emits logs!

## Restart Terraform Enterprise

> Once log forwarding is enabled and configured, Terraform Enterprise will need to
> be restarted for the changes to take effect. Please refer to the
> [HashiCorp Help Center](https://support.hashicorp.com/hc/en-us/articles/360047602093-Restarting-Terraform-Enterprise)
> for details on how to restart Terraform Enterprise.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once log forwarding is enabled and configured, you need to restart Terraform Enterprise for the changes to take effect. Please refer to the
[HashiCorp Help Center](https://support.hashicorp.com/hc/en-us/articles/360047602093-Restarting-Terraform-Enterprise)
for details on how to restart Terraform Enterprise.
```

---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Log Forwarding - Infrastructure Administration - Terraform Enterprise"
---

# Terraform Enterprise Log Forwarding

Terraform Enterprise supports forwarding its logs to one or more external

> destinations, a process called log forwarding. Log forwarding provides operators
> of Terraform Enterprise with increased observability, assistance complying with
> log retention requirements, and information availabilty during troubleshooting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
destinations, a process called log forwarding. Log forwarding provides increased observability, assistance complying with log retention requirements, and information during troubleshooting.
```

## Requirements

Log forwarding requires:

- Terraform Enterprise running on an instance using `systemd-journald`. Execute
`systemctl status systemd-journald` to check if the `systemd-journald` service
is started and enabled.
- A version of Docker that supports the `journald` logging driver. Execute
`docker info --format '{{.Plugins.Log}}'` to check if the `journald` plugin is
listed.
- Network connectivity between Terraform Enterprise and the external
destination(s) where logs should be forwarded.

## Enable Log Forwarding

Log forwarding is disabled by default. To enable log forwarding, set the
`log_forwarding_enabled` Terraform Enterprise application setting to the value
`1`.

For a Standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:

```
replicatedctl app-config set log_forwarding_enabled --value 1
```

For an Active/Active installation of Terraform Enterprise:

```
tfe-admin app-config -k log_forwarding_enabled -v 1
```

When log forwarding is enabled, the Terraform Enterprise application settings
show the following for `log_forwarding_enabled`:

```
    ...
    "log_forwarding_enabled": {
        "value": "1"
    },
    ...
```

### Configure External Destinations

> 

Author: Done!

specifying external destination(s) where Terraform Enterprise should forward
logs. Since the Terraform Enterprise application settings are stored as JSON
strings, we recommend first creating a `fluent-bit.conf` file with the valid
Fluent Bit `[OUTPUT]` configuration and then using that file to configure the
`log_forwarding_config` application setting. This method ensures that the
configuration is stored in the application settings exactly how it appears in
the `fluent-bit.conf` file.

For a Standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:

```
replicatedctl app-config set log_forwarding_config --value "$(cat fluent-bit.conf)"
```

For an Active/Active installation of Terraform Enterprise:

```
tfe-admin app-config -k log_forwarding_config -v "$(cat fluent-bit.conf)"
```

Once configured, the Terraform Enterprise application settings show the
`log_forwarding_config` setting in escaped JSON string format:

```
    ...
    "log_forwarding_config": {
        "value": "# Match all logs and do not forward them anywhere.\n[OUTPUT]\n    Name null\n    Match *\n"
    },
    ...
```

> The default configuration does not forward any logs.

Author: Done!

---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Log Forwarding - Infrastructure Administration - Terraform Enterprise"
---

# Terraform Enterprise Log Forwarding

> Terraform Enterprise supports forwarding its logs to one or more external
> destinations, aptly referred to as log forwarding. This page details how to
> configure log forwarding in Terraform Enterprise.

Reviewer 3: I think we can omit the last sentence just because I think folks can get that from the page title. But! What I think we could write instead is maybe a sentence or two about why folks may want to do this? Something like "This is useful when you....... [x, y, z]"

```suggestion
Terraform Enterprise supports forwarding its logs to one or more external
destinations, a process called log forwarding. 
```

Author: My latest edits do not include the "why?". I'll write that up and push changes. Leaving this open until then.

Author: Pushed up changes that cover the "why?". Let me know what you think.

Author: Submitted the suggestion!

## Requirements

Log forwarding requires:

> - Terraform Enterprise running on an instance with the `systemd-journald`

Reviewer 3: If it's not enabled, should we tell them how to do that, or will they already know?

Author: I'm going to chew on this a bit. I don't want to overload that list item. Technically if a user is running on a support operating system then they should already be using `systemd-journald`. Leaving this open while I work on it.

Reviewer 3: gotcha! Just let me know when it's ready for me to look again :-)

Author: I changed up the wording a tiny bit and decide to leave out instructions on starting and enabling the `systemd-journald` service. That service should be started and enabled by default on our supported operating systems and if it is not then that's an outlier that should probably be funneled through the proper Customer Success channels.

Reviewer 3: gotcha okay! works for me!

service started and enabled. Execute `systemctl status systemd-journald` to
check if the `systemd-journald` service is started and enabled.
- A version of Docker that supports the `journald` logging driver. Execute
`docker info --format '{{.Plugins.Log}}'` to check if the `journald` plugin is
listed.

> - Network connectivity between Terraform Enterprise and the desired external

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Network connectivity between Terraform Enterprise and the external
```

> destination(s) where logs should be forwarded to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
destination(s) where logs should be forwarded.
```

## Configuration

In order to use log forwarding, it must be enabled and configured. Once that is
done, the Terraform Enterprise application will need to be restarted for the log
forwarding configuration to take effect.

> 

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we can just delete this Configuration heading and move the others up to be at level 2. I say this because this is the last level 2 on the page, so there's no need to separate out this content from...other level 2 content if that makes sense. I think it would be faster and clearer to just remove "configuration" and just have the descriptive headers you have below.

This note about needing to restart is important and I also wonder if we need to make it more salient/move it somewhere else where the user is more likely to see it/not miss it. Thoughts?

Author: Love this! I removed the Configuration heading, moved the existing headings up to level 2, and added a Restart Terraform Enterprise heading.

Reviewer 3: I like it!!! I did one tiny edit for you for style, but otherwise this is good, you can resolve!

Author: Accepted the edit! Thank you!

### Enable Log Forwarding

> To enable log forwarding, the `log_forwarding_enabled` Terraform Enterprise
> application setting must be set to the value `1`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Log forwarding is disabled by default. To enable log forwarding, set the `log_forwarding_enabled` application setting to the value `1`.
```

> Enable log forwarding for a Standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a Standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:
```

```
replicatedctl app-config set log_forwarding_enabled --value 1
```

Enable log forwarding for an Active/Active installation of Terraform Enterprise:

```
tfe-admin app-config -k log_forwarding_enabled -v 1
```

> When enabled, the Terraform Enterprise application settings should show the
> following for the `log_forwarding_enabled` setting:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When log forwarding is enabled, the Terraform Enterprise application settings show the
following for `log_forwarding_enabled`:
```

```
    ...
    "log_forwarding_enabled": {
        "value": "1"
    },
    ...
```

> Log forwarding is disabled by default.

Reviewer 3: Moved this above!
```suggestion
```

### Configure External Destinations

> Once log forwarding is enabled, it must be configured to forward logs to one or
> more external destinations. To configure log forwarding, the
> `log_forwarding_config` Terraform Enterprise application setting must contain
> valid [Fluent Bit `[OUTPUT]` configuration](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/administration/configuring-fluent-bit)
> specifying which external destination(s) to forward logs to. Since the Terraform
> Enterprise application settings are stored as JSON strings, it is recommended to
> create a `fluent-bit.conf` file with the valid Fluent Bit `[OUTPUT]`
> configuration and then configure the `log_forwarding_config` Terraform
> Enterprise application setting with the contents of that `fluent-bit.conf` file.
> That way, the configuration is stored in the Terraform Enterprise application
> settings exactly how it appears in the `fluent-bit.conf` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `log_forwarding_config` Terraform Enterprise application setting must contain valid [Fluent Bit `[OUTPUT]` configuration](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/administration/configuring-fluent-bit) specifying external destination(s) where Terraform Enterprise should forward logs. Since the Terraform Enterprise application settings are stored as JSON strings, we recommend first creating a `fluent-bit.conf` file with the valid Fluent Bit `[OUTPUT]` configuration and then using that file to configure the `log_forwarding_config` application setting. This method ensures that the configuration is stored in the application settings exactly how it appears in the `fluent-bit.conf` file.
```

Configure log forwarding for a Standalone installation of Terraform Enterprise:

```
replicatedctl app-config set log_forwarding_config --value "$(cat fluent-bit.conf)"
```

Configure log forwarding for an Active/Active installation of Terraform
Enterprise:

```
tfe-admin app-config -k log_forwarding_config -v "$(cat fluent-bit.conf)"
```

> Once configured, the Terraform Enterprise application settings should show the
> `log_forwarding_config` setting in escaped JSON string format:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once configured, the Terraform Enterprise application settings show the
`log_forwarding_config` setting in escaped JSON string format:
```

```
    ...
    "log_forwarding_config": {
        "value": "# Match all logs and do not forward them anywhere.\n[OUTPUT]\n    Name null\n    Match *\n"
    },
    ...
```

The default configuration does not forward any logs.

```
# Match all logs and do not forward them anywhere.
[OUTPUT]
    Name null
    Match *
```

To forward logs to multiple external destinations, use multiple `[OUTPUT]`
directives.

```
# Forward all logs to Datadog.
[OUTPUT]
    Name datadog
    Match *
    ...

# Forward all logs to Fluent Bit or Fluentd.
[OUTPUT]
    Name forward
    Match *
    ...
```

> ~> **NOTE:** Do not use an `[OUTPUT]` directive with the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-> **NOTE:** Do not use an `[OUTPUT]` directive with the
```

[`stdout` Fluent Bit output plugin](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/standard-output).

> Doing so will result in a loop that will continuously emit logs!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Doing this creates a loop that continuously emits logs!
```

## Supported External Destinations

> These are the supported external destinations one can forward logs to. Each
> supported external destination contains example configuration for convenience.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we need to have a note or callout or something in the section about how to set up external forwarding (maybe in the first paragraph) to be like 'You have to pick one of the ones below..." or somehow call this out?

```suggestion
You can only forward logs to one of the supported external destinations below. Each
supported external destination contains example configuration for convenience.
```

### Amazon CloudWatch

Sending to Amazon CloudWatch is only supported when Terraform Enterprise is
located within AWS due to how Fluent Bit reads AWS credentials.

This example configuration forwards all logs to Amazon CloudWatch. Refer to the
[`cloudwatch_logs` Fluent Bit output plugin documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/cloudwatch)
for more information.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name               cloudwatch_logs
    Match              *
    region             us-east-1
    log_group_name     example-log-group
    log_stream_name    example-log-stream
    auto_create_group  On
```

> ~> **NOTE:** In Terraform Enterprise installations using AWS external services,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-> **Note** In Terraform Enterprise installations using AWS external services,
```

Fluent Bit will have access to the same `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and
`AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables that are used for object storage.

### Amazon S3

Sending to Amazon S3 is only supported when Terraform Enterprise is located
within AWS due to how Fluent Bit reads AWS credentials.

This example configuration forwards all logs to Amazon S3. Refer to the
[`s3` Fluent Bit output plugin documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/s3)
for more information.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name                          s3
    Match                         *
    bucket                        example-bucket
    region                        us-east-1
    total_file_size               250M
    s3_key_format                 /$TAG/%Y/%m/%d/%H/%M/%S/$UUID.gz
    s3_key_format_tag_delimiters  .-
```

> ~> **NOTE:** In Terraform Enterprise installations using AWS external services,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-> **Note:** In Terraform Enterprise installations using AWS external services,
```

    TLS         on
    compress    gzip
    apikey      example-api-key
    dd_service  terraform_enterprise
    dd_source   docker
    dd_tags     environment:development,owner:engineering
```

### Forward

This example configuration forwards all logs to a listening Fluent Bit or
Fluentd instance. Refer to the
[`forward` Fluent Bit output plugin documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/forward)
for more information.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name   forward
    Match  *
    Host   fluent.example.com
    Port   24224
```

### Google Cloud Platform Cloud Logging

Sending to Google Cloud Platform Cloud Logging is only supported when Terraform
Enterprise is located within GCP due to how Fluent Bit reads GCP credentials.

This example configuration forwards all logs to Google Cloud Platform Cloud
Logging (formerly known as Stackdriver). Refer to the
[`stackdriver` Fluent Bit output plugin documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/stackdriver)
for more information.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name       stackdriver
    Match      *
    location   us-east1
    namespace  terraform_enterprise
    node_id    example-hostname
    resource   generic_node
```

> ~> **NOTE:** In Terraform Enterprise installations using GCP external services,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-> **Note:** In Terraform Enterprise installations using GCP external services,
```

### Splunk Enterprise HTTP Event Collector (HEC)

This example configuration forwards all logs to Splunk Enterprise via the HTTP
Event Collector (HEC) interface. Refer to the
[`splunk` Fluent Bit output plugin documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/splunk)
for more information.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name          splunk
    Match         *
    Host          example-splunk-hec-endpoint
    Port          8088
    Splunk_Token  example-splunk-token
```

## Audit Logs

Terraform Enterprise emits its audit logs along with its application logs.
Currently, log forwarding can forward either all Terraform Enterprise logs or no
logs at all. To distinguish audit logs from application logs, audit log entries
contain the string `[Audit Log]`.

Here's an example audit log entry formatted for readability:

```
2021-08-31 04:58:30 [INFO] [7a233ad1-c50c-4737-a925-3be901e55fcb] [Audit Log]
{
  "resource":"run",
  "action":"create",
  "resource_id":"run-nL77p69bsesoF3RK",
  "organization":"example-org",
  "organization_id":"org-pveSPvxocni226Fn",
  "actor":"example-user",
  "timestamp":"2021-08-31T04:58:30Z",
  "actor_ip":"19.115.231.192"
}
```

> If you have a requirement to split audit logs from application logs, it is
> recommended to forward all Terraform Enterprise logs to a log aggregation
> system, filter the audit logs based on the `[Audit Log]` string, and forward
> just the audit logs to the desired destination.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have a requirement to split audit logs from application logs, we recommend forwarding all Terraform Enterprise logs to a log aggregation system, filtering the audit logs based on the `[Audit Log]` string, and forwarding just the audit logs to the desired destination.
```

---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Log Forwarding - Infrastructure Administration - Terraform Enterprise"
---

# Terraform Enterprise Log Forwarding

Terraform Enterprise supports forwarding its logs to one or more external
destinations, a process called log forwarding. Log forwarding provides increased
observability, assistance complying with log retention requirements, and
information during troubleshooting.

## Requirements

Log forwarding requires:

- Terraform Enterprise running on an instance using `systemd-journald`. Execute
`systemctl status systemd-journald` to check if the `systemd-journald` service
is started and enabled.

> - A version of Docker that supports the `journald` logging driver. Execute

Reviewer 4: I feel the "which version, though?" question could be mitigated if we can add the specific version it started in. Is that a clear thing to add?

Author: Based on a quick parsing of [Docker's changelog](https://github.com/moby/moby/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md), I see the earliest version of Docker to mention the `journald` logging driver is 1.9.0. However, Terraform Enterprise requires a minimum Docker version of 17.06 for the community edition and 1.13 for the version shipped in RHEL extras. That's why I figured running a command to verify the plugin is listed would be better than giving a version that may or may not work.
